Now remember we already took the first step in
engineering a Collision Detection System by using
a motion model that will rephrase the problem from
collision detection to computing the time to collision.
Also, we have already completed the second step,
which was to rephrase TTC computation to the problem of observing
relative distances between keypoints in the camera image over time.
Now with a LiDAR sensor,
we only need to measure the distance to the vehicle in front of us to get a TTC estimate.
Now in this video, I would like to develop an overview of
the various steps we need to take from a coding perspective.
Let's take a look at the different building blocks and
also at the information flow between those blocks.
Now the main idea which we have here,
is to take key point matches which we find
in the image and then from those keypoint matches,
compute by the equations we observed in lesson two,
compute the time to collision by looking at
the relative distances between key points over time.
On the right-hand side, you can see a block diagram which
shows how we will proceed in this course.
The first thing which we will do,
is we will load the images from File.
In real project, you would use the camera and take the live images as they come in,
but we will load the images from File and we will put them into a ring buffer.
Now this buffer gives us images at every point in time.
Time is shown here with a small arrow,
so we have several images and
all those images are piped through the information pipeline, which you can see here.
So the image flows from Load images into the first box,
which is called Detect Image KeyPoints.
Image key point detection can be performed by using various methods,
which we will take a very close look at in this course,
and the things which all methods return are a set of key points,
and those key points are piped into the third block,
which is called Extract KeyPoint Descriptors.
Now this block here takes two inputs.
The first is the keypoints,
which we just talked about and the second is we are
piping the images directly into this block here,
so the idea is that around each key point location,
a keypoint descriptor can be computed,
which reflects the intensity structure or other properties around this keypoint and
which is used to uniquely identify
this keypoint in the image by using its local neighborhood.
Now the output of this building block here is
a set of descriptors and those descriptors are
piped into the fourth building block which is called Match KeyPoint Descriptors,
and this one again takes two inputs.
It's the set of descriptors and it's also the set of keypoints,
and based on those two inputs,
the output here is a set of keypoint matches that is for two successive images,
a number of key points which are found in one image and
then the corresponding partners in the successive image,
so that the set of keypoints can be used to compute the time to collision.
Now the problem we are having here is that we need to isolate
the keypoints which are located on the preceding vehicle.
It doesn't bring any advantage to
track keypoints which are on the road surface in a stable manner,
because those key points will not give us the time to collision we seek.
So we have to somehow isolate the keypoints which lie on the preceding vehicle,
and exclude all other keypoints on the road surface and also on other static objects.
Now with LiDAR, the building blocks are much much shorter.
What you can see on the right-hand side is,
we also load the LiDAR 3D point Cloud from file and what it gives us,
the loading operation is a set of 3D points,
one for each instant in time t. Now what we have to do,
is we have to compute the distance to the preceding vehicle
from this 3D point Cloud at those successive moments,
and in order to do so,
what we need to do is we need to crop,
we need to isolate the 3D points on
the preceding vehicle and we can very simply do this as we are doing this in the course.
In one of the sections,
we are simply saying okay.
We don't take points from the road surface,
that means all points below a certain height
which is surely above the road surface will simply be discarded.
Also, we will only be looking straight forward,
that means left and right of our ego-lane,
we simply discard all points.
The problem with this is that,
sometimes we have a curvature in the road and also,
the preceding vehicle might not be exactly in front of us,
and for all those exceptions to the very simplifying assumptions we make,
we also need to isolate the 3D points which lie directly on the preceding vehicle.
That means exclude the road surface,
exclude static objects and cropping certainly will not be reliable enough for most cases,
especially when this preceding vehicle is not directly in front of the sensor.
So what to do? Let's proceed in the presentation and
look at this very complex building block diagram here,
which is the complete diagram,
the complete program which we will be building in this lecture here.
Now the solution which we will try to find is,
we want to use camera based object classification to
cluster LiDAR points and then compute a TTC estimate
from 3D bounding boxes instead of using only camera image or only LiDAR points,
and let's take a look.
On the left-hand side, here you can see the structure from
the second slide which loads the images,
the texts image keypoints,
extracts keypoint descriptors and also matches the keypoint descriptors.
On the right-hand side, here you can see the LiDAR Point Cloud,
the cropping of the LiDAR Point Cloud and the rest of
the boxes is new and has to be explained.
So what we want to do is once we have those initial cropping of LiDAR points,
which will give us points on the preceding vehicle,
but also maybe some points on the road surface and also some points in the left and
right lane which don't belong to the immediately preceding vehicle.
Now what we want to do,
is we want to cluster those LiDAR points,
the point cloud into objects and in order to do so,
we need information on the objects around us and also on the type of objects around us.
The information which we seek can be provided to us by the Camera,
and that's what's meant by Detect and Classify Objects here.
So imagine we have a set of vehicles in front of us
and we have a neural network or deep learning approach,
which is able to detect those objects and also to classify them into respective types.
For example, pedestrians, cars, trucks etc.
Now assume these classified objects are provided to
us in terms of a 2D bounding box in the image,
so around each object in the image,
we have a bounding box which denotes
exactly the position and the dimensions of the objects which we seek,
and those bounding boxes are then piped in to this clustering block here,
Cluster LiDAR Point Cloud and are used to
extract all the LiDAR points which belong to these respective objects.
Now after proceeding, after completing this building block here,
we have a set of bounding boxes plus LiDAR points,
and this is piped into this module here,
which is called Track 3D Object Bounding Boxes.
Now what we have as an input here,
the bounding boxes plus LiDAR,
that's exclusive to every frame.
So if we have a set of let's say a 100 frames,
every single frame has its own unique bounding boxes plus now clustered LiDAR points,
but what we still need to do is we need to connect them in time and we need to say,
okay in the frame 1, we have 15 bounding boxes plus LiDAR points.
In frame 2, we have 12 bounding boxes plus LiDAR points.
Somehow in order to measure their relative motion and also dimension change,
we need to connect the bounding boxes,
and this is done with the help of the camera.
Now the matched keypoints and
their respective descriptors are also piped into this module here,
and the idea now is to take the bounding boxes plus LiDAR points,
to take the image-based keypoint matches and to also,
by using the classified objects and the respective bounding boxes around the object,
connect the bounding boxes in space.
That means we track now based on camera input and based on
LiDAR input those objects in space and from those tracked video objects,
we compute the time to collision for each object in front of us,
and that's what's going to be realized in
the course and that's also what gives you the course structure.
So the course lessons which you are about to perform,
are reflected by the information flow through these schematic on the right-hand side.
Now the course structure is also seen again in this overview here.
We have lesson 3, which is reflected by the yellow rectangle here.
This is about keypoint detection and keypoint matching.
Then we have the mid-term project,
which is basically to develop the matching framework and also to
test several state-of-the-art algorithms, for keypoint detection,
for keypoint description and also for keypoint matching,
and once you have done that,
once you have completed lesson 3 and the mid-term project,
we will move on to Lesson 4 which is reflected by this blue bounding box here,
by the blue rectangle,
and this is about LiDAR point processing on
the right-hand side and also deep learning approaches for object detection.
So those are lessons 3 and lessons 4,
and the final project is about everything.
It's about connecting lesson 3,
connecting lesson 4 and putting everything
into software framework that at the end outputs a refined time to collision estimate,
so that the preceding vehicle is exactly tracked over
time and provides a stable TTC estimate,
which could be used in a commercial product to provide the time to collision and also
to use it as an input to
a warning system or to an automatic braking system for an autonomous vehicle.
So that's the basic idea behind this course.
You will be using both the camera and
the LiDAR sensor to compute a time to collision estimate
and then use a fusion approach to
refine the results and make everything much more robust.
Now the main part of this course with the highest information density,
will definitely be lesson 3.
Getting those keypoint matches is not easy,
and you need to first understand, A,
how to find keypoints, B,
how to describe them in a unique way and also C,
how to find them again in another image.
Now let's move to lesson 3 straight away for a deep dive into computer vision.
Have fun learning and see you again shortly.